Hey.
Welcome back to Boost Your Income
with Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is called Convert Your
Static Header to a Dynamic Header.
Cue funky beats.
[MUSIC]
All right,
here we are in my favorite code editor.
Open up your favorite.
It should also be Coda too.
I'm just kidding, you can use whatever
editor you want as long as it Coda.
Open up your theme,
Bootstrap WordPress theme here.
Make sure it's the directory.
Opened up that headered up .php
file that is provided in the theme,
here it is right here.
But we need to change it up to make
it more like what it's going to be.
So we need to take our index file from our
static site and turn the header section.
All of this stuff.
We're going to include
this in our header.php.
But WordPress-afize it.
WordPressize it.
You know what I mean.
Make it WordPress.
So yeah, let's just jump in and
start doing it.
Let's start from the top here.
I'm gonna leave for now, there's some
links to style sheets and font icons,
Google fonts, things like that that we're
gonna get into in an upcoming lecture.
But first, we're just gonna
more importantly do the header.
Like literally the header section.
So let's go ahead and
grab the header, all this right here.
Boom, copy that from
your static index file.
You're gonna take that and under this skip
link right here the screen reader text
basically just take all of this and
remove it we're just going
to scrap it gone forever and
paste what you did from your static site
just going to line this up a little bit so
here is our header and
now we're just gonna basically
make this more WordPress friendly.
So we have our header,
sight header we're looking good,
basically where we need to start
making this a little bit more
WordPress style is our navigation,
right here.
The navigation menu.
So let's get some space here
between the navbar header and
the navbar collapse section.
Cuz this is what we're gonna play with.
So in order to make this connect to
Wordpress and pull in our actual Wordpress
menus, we need to use the Wordpress
function, Wordpressnavmenu.
So I'm going to build this here.
We're going to build this here and then
we're basically going to remove this stuff
afterwards just so you can follow along.
So go ahead and add some PHP.
All right, so in that PHP we need to
use the WordPress nav menu function.
And there we're going to have an array.
And that array,
we have more stuff in here.
Good.
And then we are going to have theme
location, this is going to be which
menu is WordPress looking for.
Its going to be called primary.
There is a note on this, I'll copy and
paste this here for you.
If the WordPress, if the menu,
the WordPress admin area is not set,
then the menu class is
applied to container.
In other words,
it overwrites the container class.
So what does that mean?
We're gonna be doing that here.
So we have container and that container,
basically what is the container element.
I want it to be the nav element.
The actual nav tag, HTML5.
And then class is navbar collapse and
collapse.
And then one more is menu class, so
what is the class of the menu, so
the unordered list.
That's nav, nav bar,
nav, and nav bar right.
These are all boot strap classes remember.
Okay, so what is this,
how does this relate to this?
So, if you don't actually set the menu,
so if
I just save this as is, and left it like
this, it wouldn't actually work properly.
Because we need to actually set the menu
in the Word Press dashboard, and
that is pretty easy to do,
actually is is incredibly easy to do,
one of the easiest things you can do.
So I am just going to save this here and
lets delete this for now
just remove the nav bar don't remove
the container just the nav bar collapse,
okay so technically this should be
replacing it so lets save that and
lets go to our site here,
now we have Home and Sample page.
And we have a couple of
other funny things here.
Let's go back into our dashboard.
And Appearance Menus.
We need to create a primary menu.
This one is going to be called Main Menu.
You can call it whatever you want.
And I'm gonna create that menu.
And the theme locations
would be primary menu.
That's built in to your underscores theme.
So if I were to go back here into our
functions.php, and just search for
nav, here we go.
So down here on line 43, in our functions,
now functions.php is like,
the main core of our WordPress theme.
This is where all the PHP
functions are hosted.
So register nav menus.
This is how you register
a navigation menu in WordPress.
You can have as many as you want.
So by default they just
give you primary menu.
And that is in the primary, down here.
Do you see the relation?
Primary menu, primary menu.
That's because we, it's right here
by default in the functions file.
You can add more, like footer menu,
sidebar menu, whatever.
And they will show up in
the WordPress nav menu dashboard.
So we want this one to be
set as the primary menu and
you can leave home and sample page for
now save that and then go back cool and so
that's technically working we have
a broken image here and this button so
this image is because brand is
referencing nothing really so
let's go back to our header here,
up here the navbar brand.
To fix that, basically what we wanna do
is just make sure that we're
referencing the correct file location.
And it's also good to know we
probably don't even have it in here,
we don't have our images or anything.
And we'll add that in the next lecture,
actually.
We're gonna add our images or styles and
our scripts and all the extra bonuses.
So we'll cover that bug
in the next lecture.
So really this lecture was about
getting this header set up in there.
And having our navigation menu,
and so technically now if you
were to add more pages, and make sure that
those were hooked into that primary menu,
they would show up in the header, so
hopefully that wasn't too confusing,
just a real quick recap,
so basically what we did,
was we took our headered up php file, and
our under [INAUDIBLE] theme or we can call
it our Bootstrap to WordPress theme now
because that's what it's going to be.
And we took out the default
code under the skip link here
and we added our header
from out static index file.
And then there we basically just
turned our Word press nav menu.
We use the word press nav menu
function to add a dynamic menu so
that we can actually have real
dynamic menu items in our header.
And the quick note here, the button
that you see for toggle navigation,
the reason why that is there,
is because we don't actually have
our boot strap styles in there yet.
That's our only class, is a boot strap
specific class which hides anything.
As a screen reader and so
that's why we see it up here and
its kind of ugly right now.
So in the next lecture were
gonna fix up this image,
were gonna add out bootstrap styles,
scripts and certain things like that,
clean the rest of this header up so
we can actually get into the good stuff.
Dont worry its going to start
looking good pretty soon.
See you there.
[MUSIC].